---
layout: post
title: ESLA Speak-01-Schwa ə 
date: 2021-09-21 01:01:02
categories: 外国語
tags: 外国語
---
* content
{:toc}

> 位于iOS的Skill 第10部分 Schwa ə 

> 音标记号参考 [ESLA Speak-00-IPA](http://road2ai.info/2021/09/21/ELSA-00/)

关于 ə 的发音参考如下1个Youtube，

- UH [ə] Vowel - How to make the SCHWA Vowel
<iframe width="672" height="378" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2BmkUa4Mv60" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

- The Schwa /ə/ Sound - How to Pronounce the Schwa
<iframe width="672" height="378" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6Jh6nn0OS74" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# 1.2. Introduction and Basic Introduction(01-05)

## Word
- from /frʌm/ 
- See you! /si jə/

## Phrase
- May I introduce myself?
- Good to see you.
- May I introduce Jack to you?
- I'd like for you to meet Jack.
- Thanks for introducing me.
- Great seeing you today.
- I hope to see you again.

# 3. My job,career(06-11)

## Word
- entrepreneur  /ˌɑːn.trə.prəˈnɝː/ 企业家
- legacy /ˈleɡ.ə.si/ 遺産
- accountant /əˈkaʊn.t̬ənt/　会計士
- ballerina /ˌbæl.əˈriː.nə/ a female ballet dancer
- pharmacist /ˈfɑːr.mə.sɪst/　薬剤師
- journalist /ˈdʒɝː.nə.lɪst/
- receptionist /rɪˈsep.ʃən.ɪst/
- economist /iˈkɑː.nə.mɪst/
- physician /fɪˈzɪʃ.ən/ 医師
- optician /ɑːpˈtɪʃ.ən/ 眼鏡技師
- therapist /ˈθer.ə.pɪst/
- politician /ˌpɑː.ləˈtɪʃ.ən/ 政治家
- technician /tekˈnɪʃ.ən/ 技術者

## Phrase
- When I was a kid, I dreamt of becoming a pilot.
- Entrepreneur never give up
- My sister wants to be a ballerina when she grows up.
- I wish to land a job at a big company like Apple or Google.

## Conversation

A： Do you want to become an accountant for a company?

B： No, being an accountant is not my cup of tea.

A： How about becoming a pilot?

B:  No, being a pilot was only my childhood dream.

A:  So, what will you be when you grow up?

B:  I want to be an entrepreneur.

A:  Why entrepreneur?

B:  Because I want to leave legacy.

# 4. Education background(12-18)

## Word
- bachelor /ˈbætʃ.əl.ɚ/
- undergraduate /ˌʌn.dɚˈɡrædʒ.u.ət/
- freshman 
- interact /ˌɪn.t̬ɚˈækt/

## Phrase
- I got a bachelor's degree in computer science.
- I did Economics as my undergraduate degree.
- advanced degree /ədˈvænst/ /dɪˈɡriː/
- I attend English class three times a week.
- face to face class 対面授業
- I prefer a face-to-face class, so everyone can interact with one another
- distance learning 遠隔教育
- Distance learning works best for me since my house is far away from school
- play truant /ˈtruː.ənt/ : to be regularly absent from school without permission
- Most parents are horrified when they discover their children have been playing truant from school.

## Conversation

A: Tell me about your education background.

B: I got a bachelor's degree in computer science.

A: Where did you go to college?

B: I graducated from Standford University last year.

A: That's wonderful. My sister went there too.

B: Oh, that's right, She's doing her PhD in Chemistry there right?

A: Yeah, She's working on her thesis now.

B: I'm also thinking to get an advanced degree next year.

A: Go back to school?

B: Probably an online degree as I can do distance learning.

> thesis: /ˈθiː.sɪs/ 

# 5. My hobbies(19-27)

## Word
- photography /fəˈtɑː.ɡrə.fi/
- astrology /əˈstrɑː.lə.dʒi/
- drama 
- novel /ˈnɑː.vəl/
- a cappella /ˌɑː kəˈpel.ə/: sung by a group of people without any musical instruments
- instrument /ˈɪn.strə.mənt/
- organ /ˈɔr·ɡən/ 
 - 1. a part of the body of a person, animal
 - 2. a musical instrument with one or more rows of keys
- violin /ˌvaɪəˈlɪn/
- stamina /ˈstæm.ə.nə/
- exhilarating /ɪɡˈzɪl.ə.reɪ.t̬ɪŋ/:making you feel very excited and happy
- Avalanche /ˈæv.əl.æntʃ/ : a large amount of ice, snow, and rock falling quickly down the side of a mountain

## Phrase
- Emma decided to take a photography class after receiving her first camera.
- You must have a lot of knowledge about astrology to work for NASA.
- I love going to the cinema to watch new movies.
- Have you seen any good movies recently?
- I read novels during my free time.
- I always wish to join an a cappella group in college.
- Do you play any musical instruments?
- I've played the organ for 5 years.
- My dad gave me a new violin for my brithday.
- He has a strong stamina since he has been running for 2 hours straight.
- You should try sky diving. It's exhilarating!
- Listening to music helps me relax.
- Yoga help me to be calm.
- Yoga requires good balance and stamina.
- Please check all the ski equipment before we leave.
- Skiing is exhilarating.
- I would ski everyday if I could afford it.
- Avalanche is extremely dangerous.
- I want to travel to India one day.

## Conversation

A: Wow, Justin! You are really into collecting old books.

B: Yes, I collect rare books.

A: It's my favorite thing to do too. I collect coins.

B: Well, I'm just an amateur. I started just recently.

A: Do you play any sports?

B: No, I'm not particularly sporty. I like watching soccer.

A: Which team do you support?

B: I support Barcelona's team.


# 6. My hometown(28-34)

## Word
- heritage /ˈher.ɪ.t̬ɪdʒ/ 遺産　cultural heritage 文化遺産
- economic /ek.əˈnɑː.mɪk/
- amenity /əˈmen.ə.t̬i/: things considered to be necessary to live comfortably, such as hot water.
- commute /kəˈmjuːt/
- atmosphere /ˈæt.mə.sfɪr/
- traffic congestion /kənˈdʒes.tʃən/
- horrendous /həˈren.dəs/: extremely unpleasant or bad
- cosmopolitan /ˌkɑːz.məˈpɑː.lɪ.t̬ən/: containing or having experience of people and things from many different parts of the world
- hustle /ˈhʌs.əl/: to make someone move quickly by pushing or pulling them along

## Phrase

- What a beautiful sight!
- I want to explore more about heritage.
- How is your economic stability?
- Despite small, my hometown has excellent amenities.
- It's exhausting commuting from Brighton to London every day.
- Denmark has very high quality of life.
- I love the relaxed atmosphere in my town.
- Despite being small,my hometown has excellent amenities.
- Where I come from the congestion is horrendous.
- The air quality is terrible because of pollution.
- We have terrible congestion during rush hours.
- New York is a highly cosmopolitan city.
- London is a economic hub(経済の中心地).
- If we really hustle, we can finish the job by lunchtime.

## Conversation

A: Tell me about your hometown.

B: I grew up in Ho Chi Minh City, the largest city in Vietnam.

A: Is it the capital of the country?

B: No, but it's the major economic hub.

A: What do you like most about your hometown.

B: The hustling atmosphere and the excellent amenities.

A: But I heard traffic congestion is pretty bad there, is that right?

B: Sadly yes, The air quality is terrible because of pollution.

A: Do you have to commute everyday?

B: Yes, but fortunately I live near a convenient bus route.